Jacob Cole

1. It seems as though people are really interested in apps centered around
organization, particularly with daily planning or work planning. I understand
why people would want better apps like this. Because there are multiple, there
are going to be features that some apps have that others don't. It would be
interesting to survey people specifically about organization apps to find out
what they do and don't like about them, or what specific things they would like
to have organized and tracked on their phone in their lives. Some people mentioned
administrative problems, such as getting into a dorm building. Apps that solve
problems like these are not what I would have initially considered to be a potential
project, but I will admit it is an interesting road to take. Apps that interface
with real world devices such as cars to see what the problems are with them were
also brought up. I like this idea because it really makes your phone feel like a
real world tool that can be used to improve your life. This is another potential
design path to look into.

2. I think that free apps with no ads are ideal from a user perspective. However,
it is natural that a developer would want to get paid for their app, and in
considering multiple ways that this could be done, I think that one of the best
is donations. This is the way that websites such as Wikipedia remain active
without selling ad space, and so far it has been mostly effective. It is not the
most profitable way to get money from an app, but people who are passionate about
it may feel it is worthwhile to pay the developer to ensure that support for the
app continues. Another idea that I had was cosmetic purchases. Many free video
games engage in this, where rather than having people pay for the game, they
offer in-game cosmetic items that do not change the functionality of the game,
but simply the look. I think that something down this avenue could be implemented
in a mobile app in a way that does not alienate the customer base.

3. In my opinion, Telegram has a fantastic UX/UI. When you launch the app, immediately in front
of you are all of your conversations, and exactly three buttons: compose a new message, search
through your messages, and the three-line symbol which brings you to app options and settings.
I have never been confused on Telegram or felt as though it was too clunky. At the end of the day
it is just a messaging app, however it is clean and customizable to fit whatever visual style you
prefer. When messaging someone, you are given the option to call them next to their name in the
top right, and the message bar is very basic. Attaching files is as easy as pressing the paper clip
symbol, which has long been known as the "attachment" symbol. I'm not sure what else I really
have to say about Telegram, other than if you don't use it I suggest trying it out to see if
the UI/UX suits you.

4. I would really like to focus on making something with a minimalist design that accomplishes
a single goal as effectively as possible. Based on my own survey I found the most interesting
idea to me to be the recipe app. One that allows a user to post any recipe they want, with a refined
searching system, freely scalable ingredients/serving sizes, and clean presentation. I am also
interested in creating an app that serves a very specific group of people, such as an app that
helps people with diabetes to track their days and progress. I'm still not super sure which
direction I want to go with my project, but I feel like I am between these two ideas right now. I
think that our in class discussions have helped me to become more aware of apps that already
solve the problems I am thinking about, what they do right and what they do wrong.